Welcome back everyone.
And this lecture we're going to briefly talk about grades section specifically the two built in functions
that are in open CV that can help you find grids if the need arises often.
Cameras can create a distortion in an image such as real distortion or tangential distortion in a good
way to account for these sort of distortions when performing operations like object tracking is to have
a recognizable pattern attached to the object being tracked.
So often what you'll see happen is if you're trying to track maybe a car using some sort of CV application
and you're just training the actual application to work then you'll put a grid like pattern on the car
so you can keep track of the angle of the car as you go along.
So here we can see an example of grid tracking where there's a cube mounted virtually onto this grid
that is in real life as the grid moves that cube will then be tracked.
So grid patterns are often used to calibrate cameras and track motion open C-v has built in methods
for tracking grids and chessboard like patterns.
Let's go ahead and just quickly explore them with the chessboard images that we've already seen.
OK here I am in the Jupiter notebook.
I went ahead and just did the normal imports although we won't be using them all.
We will be using C-v to and map plot lib.
The image we're going to be working with is that flat chessboard image.
Let me go ahead and load it again.
Will say CB2 image read and then data and the one we're going to read is called Flat chessboard and
let's go ahead and just display that image so we can see what it looks like.
We'll see flat chests and then just run that.
And there we have the image itself.
Something to keep in mind here is for this sort of grid detection.
This particular grid detection methods we're showing here.
The grid has to essentially look like a chessboard or be a formalized grid.
This is not looking for something that kind of looks like a chess board or kind of looks like a grid.
The grid should be specifically made to look like some sort of checkerboard or chess board type image
and then placed on whatever you're trying to calibrate your camera with or whatever you're trying to
analyze.
So keep that in mind.
It's really only specifically looking for this sort of pattern.
OK so how do we actually find the chessboard corners.
Well we just call CB2 and then say find chess.
And if you hit tab here it's going to auto complete to fine chessboard corners.
Again this is just specifically looking for things that look like a chessboard grid that you pass in
the image.
So we pass the image variable and then you passen the grid size.
In our case the entire image is eight by eight but it's not going to be able to detect the outer chess
squares because they're missing an edge since they are all the way to the end of the image.
So is that all we're going to do is for the second parameter which is the size of the grid we will say
7 by 7.
Because this is 8 by 8.
It's not going to be able to detect that very last one.
So let's say it's seven by seven and return back to variables which we can unpack found and corner's
found is just a really useful boolean indicating whether or not it was able to find the chessboard type
corners so often if you're kind of dealing with something that looks a little sloppy or a little blurry
it will say found is false and then it won't return anything Corneau corners.
So it's nice to be able to use found as an if statement so if found prints we found corner's else Printz
we did not find corner's if you take a look at the actual corner's object.
It's essentially a list of coordinates that show you where it actually found the corners of the chessboard
and we're going to able to use that in conjunction of another function called draw chessboards corners.
Let's go ahead and do that.
I'm going to say CB2 and then type out draw chessboards corners go ahead and have autocomplete that
we're just going to pass in our image.
So we're going to say flat chess or you can also make a copy of this and then we'll say the following.
We'll say that it was seven by seven pass in the corners and then you also pass and found.
So basically this algorithm or the find chessboard corner's function feeds directly into the draw chessboard
corners and we can go ahead to do that.
And that will draw on place on this image.
So sometimes you may want to make a copy if necessary but let's see the result.
I'm going to say peel t show and we run that we a flat chessboard image and now we see the open CV draw
chessboard corners and what it does is it just marks the corners and then it marks the rows in different
colors so you kind of get this rainbow like row and ends up connecting them all with a zigzag line.
It looks like this so it follows along and that it connects to the next one and it looks something like
that.
OK.
So two really simple and easy to use functions.
The main thing you have to be worried about is if your image is actually clean enough as a chessboard
to read.
This one is really easy because it's literally just the kind of two that mentionable cartoon chessboard.
But often in real life it's a lot trickier.
Which is why this found variable will be useful to use as an if statement of whether or not you can
actually perform the draw chessboard of corners.
Now we can actually look for other grid like patterns in other common grid like pattern.
Our circle based grids.
So I'm going to load up another image called dots and say CB2 image read data.
And this one is called Dot grid.
PNB let me just show you what it looks like first.
And we can see here we have a grid of dots.
This is another really common pattern just a grid of circles or a grid of dots.
We can see here that even these aren't like perfectly clean circles and we're going to have another
function that can find these as well.
This one is called Seabee to find the circles grid.
And then we get a passen dots and then you're going to pass in the dots you're actually looking for.
So in this case if you count them up we're looking for a 10 by 10 grid.
And the final parameter here is the way it actually searches for it.
Are you going to use the default value which is the way it calibrates to find it.
It's Kalib underscore Seabee underscore and you can kind of have autocomplete this if you want CB underscore
symmetric grid.
So just looking for circle grid.
This is the actual method it's going to be using.
Go ahead and run that check that it actually found them and found this true.
So it found the actual grid which means we can then actually draw on this as well.
And these corners are actually in the same format as the corners from find the chessboard image.
So then we can actually use the draw chessboard corners function even if we're looking for a circle
grid.
So I'm going to copy this and then let me come back up here and comment that out go into copy draw chessboards
corners and in this case we're going to draw on the original dots image.
It was a 10 by 10 grid of dots and then we just pass in corners and found will go ahead and run that.
And then after you see the Saray what's going to happen is I can actually show the resulting image since
it was drawn on.
And let's go ahead and check it out.
It should be dots and then we can see all the dots so it ends up plotting at each particular color and
then each new row gets a new color of the rainbow and so on.
And that's how the draw chessboard corners works.
OK.
So this is often used for camera calibration we've really only scratched the surface here.
The main reason we want to show this lecture is because it's a direct extension of finding corners and
finding edges.
It's just two functions that are conveniently built into open C-v again.
CB2 fine circle's grid and then C-v to find chessboards corners and then if you ever want to draw on
the original image you can say CB2 draw chessboard corners it returns array but also will affect and
draw on the image you pasan.
Thanks and we'll see you at the next lecture where we begin to talk about contour detection.